PROJECT REPORT

Title: Student Management System in C
Authors: Ayush Pundeer, Aryan Pandey, Shourya tondon
Course/Subject: Btech CSE batch 54
Date: 4/12/25


1. Introduction

This project is a simple Student Management System written in the C programming language.
It allows the user to add student records, display all students, and search for a specific student using a menu-driven interface. The program is modularized using separate .c and .h files for better structure and maintainability.


2. Objectives

The main objectives of the project are:

1. To demonstrate understanding of C programming concepts.


2. To implement functions, header files, and modular program structure.


3. To design a menu-driven application for managing student data.


4. To provide basic CRUD (Create, Read, Search) functionality.



3. System Requirements

Software Requirements:

GCC Compiler or any C compiler

Text Editor or IDE (VS Code, CodeBlocks, Dev-C++, etc.)


Hardware Requirements:

Basic computer capable of running a C compiler



4. Project Structure

The project includes the following files:

1. main.c
Contains the main menu loop and user interaction logic.


2. student.h
Header file containing function declarations and structures.


3. student.c
Contains function definitions for:

Adding a student

Displaying students

Searching for a student


5. Program Description

The program presents a menu with four options:

1. Add Student
Prompts the user to enter student details, then stores them.


2. Display Students
Shows a list of all stored student records.


3. Search Student
Allows the user to search for a specific student, usually by ID or name.


4. Exit
Terminates the program.


The menu runs in an infinite loop (while(1)), allowing continuous operation until the user chooses to exit.


6. Code Overview (main.c)

#include <stdio.h>
#include "student.h"

int main() {
    int choice;

    while (1) {
        printf("\n1. Add Student");
        printf("\n2. Display Students");
        printf("\n3. Search Student");
        printf("\n4. Exit");
        printf("\nEnter Choice: ");
        scanf("%d", &choice);

        switch (choice) {
            case 1: addStudent(); break;
            case 2: displayStudents(); break;
            case 3: searchStudent(); break;
            case 4: return 0;
            default: printf("Invalid Choice");
        }
    }

    return 0;
}

This code continuously displays the menu and calls the corresponding functions based on the user's input.


7. Expected Output

Upon running the program, the user sees:

1. Add Student
2. Display Students
3. Search Student
4. Exit
Enter Choice:

Based on the selection, the program performs the requested operation.


8. Conclusion

The Student Management System successfully demonstrates:

Use of functions

Modular programming (header + source files)

User interaction through a menu

Basic data handling in C


This project can be further expanded by adding functionalities such as:

Editing student records

Deleting records

Saving/loading data from files

Sorting students
